>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY JUNE 20:
NEW DETAILS EMERGE ABOUT
SUSPECTED CHARLESTON CHURCH
SHOOTER DYLANN ROOF.
AS CHARLESTON CONTINUES TO COPE
WITH THE TRAGEDY.
>> IF THAT YOUNG MAN THOUGHT HE
WAS GOING DIVIDE THIS COMMUNITY
OR DIVIDE THIS COUNTRY WITH HIS
RACIAL HATRED, HE MISERABLY
FAILED.
>> Sreenivasan: WHILE OTHER
CONGREGATIONS ACROSS THE COUNTRY
SHOW THEIR SUPPORT.
>> THIS CHURCH, THE AFRICAN
METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH, BORN
OUT OF THE EMERGENT NEEDS OF
PEOPLE FINDING THEMSELVES IN
DIFFICULTIES DAY IN AND DAY OUT.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS IN
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WE START WITH NEW DETAILS ABOUT
THE YOUNG MAN CHARGED WITH
KILLING NINE BLACK PARISHIONERS
IN AN HISTORIC CHARLESTON
CHURCH.
FEDERAL AUTHORITIES ARE
REPORTEDLY INVESTIGATING A
WEBSITE THAT CONTAINS PICTURES
OF 21-YEAR OLD DYLANN STORM ROOF
WHICH WERE POSTED ALONG WITH
WHAT IS DESCRIBED AS A WHITE
SUPREMACIST MANIFESTO.
ROOF APPEARS TO BE POSING IN
DOZENS OF PICTURES, HOLDING
WEAPONS, BURNING FLAGS AND
VISITING CONFEDERATE SOLDIERS'
GRAVES.
SOME OF THE PHOTOS APPEAR TO
HAVE BEEN TAKEN JUST HOURS
BEFORE THE SHOOTING.
IT IS NOT CLEAR WHO WROTE THE
MANIFESTO OR TOOK THE PICTURES.
BUT IN A SECTION TITLED "AN
EXPLANATION," THE AUTHOR WROTE
THAT CHARLESTON DOESN'T HAVE ANY
SKINHEADS OR REAL KKK, SO,"
WELL, SOMEONE HAS TO HAVE THE
BRAVERY TO TAKE IT TO THE REAL
WORLD, AND I GUESS THAT HAS TO
BE ME."
AN AFRICAN-AMERICAN FRIEND OF
THE SUSPECT TOLD THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS THAT HE HAD BEEN DRINKING
WITH ROOF AND OTHERS LAST WEEK
WHEN ROOF ANNOUNCED HE WAS
PLANNING A MASS SHOOTING AT THE
COLLEGE OF CHARLESTON.
CHRISTON SCRIVEN SAID HE THOUGHT
IT WAS JUST DRUNKEN BLUSTER, BUT
ANOTHER FRIEND HID ROOF'S
HANDGUN UNTIL ROOF SOBERED UP.
>> I DON'T EVEN THINK THE CHURCH
WAS HIS PRIMARY TARGET, BECAUSE
HE WENT, HE TOLD US HE WAS GOING
FOR THE SCHOOL, BUT I THINK HE
>> Sreenivasan: TONIGHT, WE'RE
ALSO LEARNING THAT ROOF WAS ABLE
TO GET THAT GUN THROUGH A
LOOPHOLE IN THE GUN LAWS.
FEDERAL LAW PROHIBITS DEALERS
FROM SELLING A FIREARM TO
SOMEONE FACING PENDING FELONY
CHARGES.
ROOF, WHO WAS CHARGED WITH
POSSESSION OF SUBOXONE, A
PRESCRIPTION NARCOTIC, HAD
ACCESS TO THE WEAPON BECAUSE,
ACCORDING TO THE "WASHINGTON
POST," HE GOT THE GUN FROM HIS
FATHER AS A GIFT, MAKING IT A
PRIVATE GUN TRANSACTION WITH NO
REQUIRED BACKGROUND CHECK IN THE
STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
DYLANN ROOF'S FAMILY ISSUED A
STATEMENT LATE LAST NIGHT,
SAYING THE FAMILY IS DEVASTATED
AND PRAYING FOR PEACE AND
HEALING.
THE JUDGE IN THE CASE CALLED FOR
SYMPATHY AND HELP FOR THE
VICTIMS INCLUDING ROOF'S FAMILY
MEMBERS.
LAST NIGHT, CHURCH AND CITY
LEADERS IN CHARLESTON SPOKE
ABOUT THE IMPACT OF THE VIOLENCE
ON THEIR COMMUNITY:
>> WE'RE HERE TO ENCOURAGE THE
NINE FAMILIES, THE LEADERSHIP
OF THE CHURCH, TO ACKNOWLEDGE
AND WRESTLE WITH WHAT MUST BE
DONE ABOUT THE VIOLENCE THAT
TOOK NINE LIVES WHILE THEY
SPREAD THE WORD OF GOD, AND
FELLOWSHIP, ONE WITH THE OTHER.
>> IF THAT YOUNG MAN THOUGHT HE
WAS GOING DIVIDE THIS COMMUNITY
OR DIVIDE THIS COUNTRY WITH HIS
RACIAL HATRED, HE MISERABLY
FAILED.
CONGREGATIONS ACROSS CHARLESTON
ARE SYNCHRONIZING THEIR CHURCH
BELLS AS A SIGN OF UNITY TO RING
THEM ALL EXACTLY AT 10:00 A.M.
TOMORROW.
>> Sreenivasan: REUTERS REPORTER
LUCIANA LOPEZ HAS BEEN IN SOUTH
CAROLINA COVERING THE STORY.
SHE JOINS ME NOW FROM MOUNT
PLEASANT SOUTH CAROLINA.
WHAT MORE DO WE KNOW TODAY ABOUT
DYLANN ROOF AND HIS MOTIVATIONS?
>> WELL, ONE INTERESTING THING
THAT SURFACED IS THAT WHAT
APPEARED TO BE A WHITE
SUPREMACIST MANIFESTO HAS
SURFACED, AND WE'RE TRYING TO
VERIFY THAT THIS DOES, INDEED,
COME FROM DYLANN ROOF, BUT IT
LAYS OUT A LITTLE BIT ABOUT HOW
HE WAS RADICALIZED, LOOKING UP
INFORMATION ABOUT TRAYVON
MARTIN, AND IT LAYS OUT SOME OF
HIS FEELINGS ABOUT OTHER RACIAL
GROUPS AS WELL.
AGAIN, WE'RE TRYING TO VERIFY
THAT THIS IS, INDEED, HIS, BUT
THIS GOES A LITTLE BIT DEEPER
INTO HIS IDEOLOGY.
>> Sreenivasan: AND WHAT'S IN
THERE?
WHAT DOES HE THINK OF AND WAS
THERE AN EXPLANATION FOR WHY HE
DID THIS?
>> THERE IS AN EXPLANATION OF
SORT.
AGAIN, HE TALKS ABOUT HOW HE WAS
RADICALIZED AND LOOKING UP
INFORMATION ABOUT DIFFERENT
RACIAL AND ETHNIC GROUPS IN THE
UNITED STATES, AND HE SAYS HE'S
PICKED CHARLESTON, IN FACT,
BECAUSE OF ITS SIGNIFICANCE, AND
BECAUSE OF ITS HISTORICAL
SIGNIFICANCE.
AND HE SAYS HE FELT LIKE HE
REALLY NEEDED TO MAKE A
STATEMENT AND THAT WAS REALLY
THE PLACE TO DO IT.
AND HE ALSO IMPLIES THAT THERE
WASN'T ANYONE ELSE TO DO THIS,
AND SO HE FELT LIKE THIS WAS
SOMETHING THAT HE HAD SOME SORT
OF MISSION TO GO OUT THERE TO
DO.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU'VE BEEN
REPORTING THERE SINCE THIS
TRAGEDY HAPPENED.
HAS THE DISCUSSION STARTED TO
INCLUDE THE CONFEDERATE FLAG OR
GUN CONTROL, OR IS IT STILL JUST
PEOPLE GRIEVING RIGHT NOW?
>> THERE'S BEEN QUITE A LOT OF
DISCUSSION ABOUT THE CONFEDERATE
FLAG.
IN FACT, IT'S EMERGED AS ONE OF
THE FLASHPOINT HERE FOR
DISCUSSIONS.
SO, FOR EXAMPLE, YESTERDAY AT
N.A.A.C.P., THERE WAS A LOT OF
DISCUSSION ABOUT HOW THE FLAG
NEEDS TO COME DOWN BECAUSE IT IS
VIEWED AS A SYMBOL OF HATRED AND
VERY SAD TIME IN AMERICAN
HISTORY.
I WAS ACTUALLY JUST AT A CHURCH
EARLIER TODAY, AND THE PASTOR
THERE, NELSON RIVERS, TALKED
ABOUT THE CONFEDERATE FLAG, AND
HE DIRECTLY ADDRESSED PEOPLE WHO
SAID, "OH, THE FLAG IS A SYMBOL
OF SOUTHERN HERITAGE."
AND HIS RESPONSE WAS, "I KNOW
WHAT TIME IT IS."
AND HE ACTUALLY CALLED WORSHIP
OF THE FLAG, IN A SENSE,
IDOLATRY AND HE SAID THE LIVES
OF THE PEOPLE WHO WERE KILLED IN
THIS TRAGEDY ARE MORE IMPORTANT.
IN FACT, WE EVEN HAD MITT ROMNEY
TWEETING OUT TODAY ABOUT THE
CONFEDERATE FLAG AND ABOUT
TAKING IT DOWN, WHICH WAS PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHAT ABOUT
THE CONVERSATIONS ON THE STREETS
WHEN YOU TALK TO PEOPLE?
THIS IS ONE SPECIFIC CHURCH IN
ONE SPECIFIC PART OF TOWN.
HOW HAS THIS IMPACTED ALL OF
CHARLESTON?
>> WELL, THIS IS ONE SPECIFIC
CHURCH, BUT IT'S A CHURCH WITH A
LONG AND STORIED HISTORY, AND
IT'S A CHURCH THAT'S VIEWED AS,
IN SOME SENSE, BELONGING TO ALL
OF CHARLESTON, NOT JUST THE
PEOPLE WHO ATTENDED IT.
AND IT'S SOMETHING THAT I THINK
HAS REALLY SHAKEN PEOPLE BECAUSE
THERE IS A STRONG TRADITION OF
CHURCHGOING HERE IN TOWN, AND
THERE IS THIS IDEA THAT CHURCH
SAY HOLY SPACE, AND THAT SOMEONE
COULD COME INTO THIS HOLY SPACE
AND TRY TO TURN IT INTO
SOMETHING ELSE, TRY TO TAKE IT
AWAY, THAT'S HIT PEOPLE VERY
CLOSE TO HOME.
WHETHER OR NOT THEY GO TO MOTHER
EMANUEL, WHETHER OR NOT THEY'VE
EVER EVEN SET FOOT HERE.
FOR EXAMPLE, I SPOKE WITH ONE
MAN LAST NIGHT WHO WAS THERE FOR
THE SECOND DAY IN A ROW AT THE
CHURCH TO PAY HIS RESPECTS.
HE DOESN'T GO TO THAT CHURCH.
HE DOESN'T KNOW ANYONE, IN FACT,
WHO WAS INVOLVED IN THIS
TRAGEDY, BUT WHAT HE SAID WAS
THAT IT'S IMPORTANT FOR HIM TO
GO THERE SO THAT HE CAN REMEMBER
WHAT THIS FEELS LIKE, SO THAT HE
DOESN'T LET THIS BECOME JUST
PART OF THE BACKGROUND NOISE OF
LIFE BUT THAT THIS IS IN FACT
SOMETHING THAT COULD SPUR HIM
TOWARD LOVING PEOPLE MORE AND IN
FACT, TOWARD LIVING A BETTER
LIFE.
AGAIN, THIS WAS SOMEONE WHO WAS
NOT PERSONALLY INVOLVED IN THIS
AT ALL.
BUT IT STILL MEANT SOMETHING
VERY DEEP TO HIM, AND SOMETHING
THAT HE VERY SPECIFICALLY WANTED
TO TAKE WITH HIM INTO THE
FUTURE.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT
LUCIANA LOPEZ OF REUTERS JOINING
US FROM SOUTH CAROLINA, THANKS
SO MUCH.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: WE TURN NOW TO
ONE OF EMANUEL A.M.E.'s
TRUSTEES WHO IS ALSO A
CHARLESTON CITY COUNCILMAN,
WILLIAM DUDLEY GREGORIE.
HE CALLS THE SHOOTINGS RACIALLY
MOTIVATED TERRORISM.
THANKS FOR JOINING ME.
THERE SEEM TO BE COMPETING
NARRATIVES HERE, ON THE ONE HAND
THAT THIS IS A CRAZY INDIVIDUAL,
AND ON THE OTHER HAND, THAT THIS
IS A SYMPTOM OF DEEPER SYSTEMIC
RACISM IN YOUR CITY OR YOUR
STATE.
I THINK THAT IT IS DOMESTIC
TERRORISM BECAUSE I DO THINK
THAT THE BASIS OF TERRORISM IS
HATE.
HOWEVER, I THINK IT'S VERY
IMPORTANT TO KNOW THAT THE
GUNMAN IS NOT FROM THE CITY OF
CHARLESTON.
THE GUNMAN IS FROM ABOUT 100,
125 MILES AWAY.
OUR CITY IS A CITY THAT IS ONE
CHARLESTON, AND WE CLEARLY FEEL
THAT WITH THIS INCIDENT-- WHAT
THIS INCIDENT HAS DONE IS MAKE
OUR ONE CHARLESTON MORE AND MORE
COMING TOGETHER AS ONE.
>> Sreenivasan: SO YOU'VE ALSO
HAD THE UNFORTUNATE CASE OF THE
WALTER SCOTT SHOOTING JUST A
COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO.
WHAT HAVE YOU FOUND IN THE
AFTERMATH OF THE-- IN TERMS OF
RACIAL TENSIONS THAT MIGHT
EXIST?
>> I THINK SO THAT WE HAVE TO
REALLY SEPARATE.
THERE IS A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
THE CITY OF CHARLESTON AND THE
CITY OF NORTH CHARLESTON WHERE
THE WALTER SCOTT INCIDENT
OCCURRED.
AND I HAVE A GREAT DEAL OF
RESPECT FOR MAYOR SUMY, WHO FROM
THE ONSET, WAS VERY CLEAR THAT,
THAT WAS A WRONG DEED THAT
OCCURRED, AND THE OFFICER WHO
WAS INVOLVED SHOULD BE PUNISHED
ACCORDINGLY.
BUT I THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT PEOPLE KNOW
THAT THESE ARE TWO DISTINCT
CITIES-- THE CITY OF CHARLESTON
AND THE CITY OF NORTH
CHARLESTON.
>> Sreenivasan: EVEN IF YOU
LOOKED AT YOUR CITY DISCRETELY
FROM NORTH CHARLESTON OR THE
STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA, THERE
SEEM TO BE THESE COMPETING OR
CONFLICTING FACTS.
YOU HAVE AN INDIAN AMERICAN
GOVERNOR, AN AFRICAN AMERICA
SENATOR.
YOU, YOURSELF ARE, ELECTED FROM
A MAJORITY WHITE COMMUNITY, OR
THE DISTRICT THAT YOU'RE IN.
YET, TAME YOU HAVE A CONFEDERATE
FLAG FLYING HIGH NEXT TO THE
STEPS OF THE STATE CAPITOL.
>> WELL, FOR ME RIGHT NOW, WE
ARE GOING TO HAVE TIME TO DEAL
WITH THAT ISSUE.
BUT AS A MEMBER OF EMANUEL, A
LIFELONG MEMBER, WHAT WE WANT TO
FOCUS ON AS A CHURCH AND AS A
CITY, BURYING OUR DEAD, GO
THROUGH THE HEALING PROCESS SO
THAT WE CAN GET TO FORGIVENESS
AND MOVE FORWARD ACCORDINGLY.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A LOT OF
TIME TO DISCUSS THE CONFEDERATE
FLAG AND GUN CONTROL.
BUT RIGHT NOW, WHAT WE WANT TO
DO IS FOCUS ON OUR EMANUEL
A.M.E. FAMILY AS WE GET THROUGH
THIS CRISIS AND HEAL AND
FORGIVE.
SO UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES, AT
LEAST AS A MEMBER OF THE EMANUEL
CHURCH, ARE WE GOING TO ENGAGE
IN POLITICIZING THE DEATH OF
NINE OF OUR PARISHIONERS OF
WHICH WE NOW HAVE TO PLAN FOR
NINE FUNERALS.
SO WE WILL HAVE A LOT OF TIME
AFTER WE BURY OUR DEAD TO DEAL
WITH THE POLITICAL ISSUES THAT
YOU JUST QUESTIONED ME ON.
>> Sreenivasan: SO YESTERDAY
ONE OF THE MOST MOVING THINGS I
THINK FOR ANYONE WATCHING IN THE
COUNTRY WAS LISTENING TO THE
AUDIO OF FAMILY MEMBERS LOOKING
AT THE PERSON OR THE SUSPECT WHO
COULD HAVE TAKEN THE LIVES OF
THEIR FAMILY MEMBERS AND
FORGIVING THEM.
I MEAN, JUST THE POWER OF
WITNESSING AND HEARING SOMEONE
FORGIVE.
WHAT WENT THROUGH YOUR MIND?
THESE ARE-- THESE ARE FELLOW
PARISHIONERS AND MEMBERS OF YOUR
COMMUNITY.
>> AND I WAS NOT SHOCKED AT ALL
BECAUSE MOTHER EMANUEL A.M.E.
CHURCH IS A FORGIVING BODY.
WE KNOW EARLY ON THAT IF YOU
FIGHT HATE WITH HATE, THEN YOU
ALSO HAVE FAILED.
YOU HAVE TO FIGHT HATE WITH
LOVE.
FORGIVENESS.
ONE OF THE MANTRAS OF OUR CHURCH
IS ABOUT HOPE.
WE CLEARLY FEEL THAT LIVING
WITHOUT HOPE IS LIKE LIVING IN
CONTINUOUS DARKNESS.
BUT HOPE WILL PEER THROUGH THE
DARKNESS, SEE THE LIGHT, AND
WAIT UNTIL MORNING.
THIS IS MORNING FOR EMANUEL
A.M.E. CHURCH.
THE SACRIFICE OF NINE MEMBERS OF
OUR CHURCH WILL NOT GO IN VAIN.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT, MY
CONDOLENCES TO YOUR PERSONAL
LOSS AS WELL.
WILLIAM DUDLEY GREGORIE, CITY
COUNCILMAN OF CHARLESTON.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
>> AND THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: CHURCHES ACROSS
THE COUNTRY ARE JOINING IN
PRAYER AND SUPPORT FOR THE
CONGREGATION IN CHARLESTON.
THE NEWSHOUR'S STEPHEN FEE
ATTENDED ONE SUCH GATHERING,
HERE IN NEW YORK CITY.
♪ I DO BELIEVE
THAT WE SHALL OVERCOME ♪
>> Reporter: UNDER RAINY SKIES
TODAY, DOZENS OF NEW YORKERS
MARCHED DOWN MERRICK BOULEVARD,
PART OF A MORNING OF PRAYER AND
SONG IN MEMORY OF THOSE KILLED
IN CHARLESTON.
LEADING THE MARCHERS, NEW YORK
CITY MAYOR BILL DE BLASIO.
>> THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
VIOLATES EVERY CONCEPT WE HAVE
OF DECENCY AND CIVILIZATION
AND DEMOCRACY.
COLD-BLOODED MURDERS IN A HOUSE
OF WORSHIP.
>> Reporter: THE MAYOR CALLED
THE KILLINGS AN ACT OF
DOMESTIC TERRORISM," AND SAID
THE COUNTRY'S GUN LAWS NEED
REFORM.
>> WE HAVE TO BE CLEAR THIS
MOMENT.
YES, IT WAS TERRORISM.
YES, IT WAS TERRORISM BASED ON
RACISM.
THAT DOES NOT FOR A MOMENT
NEGATE THE FACT THAT THIS IS
ALSO A MOMENT TO REALIZE THAT WE
HAVE A GUN PROBLEM IN THIS
COUNTRY.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Reporter: JUST MOMENTS
EARLIER, MOURNERS OF MANY FAITHS
GATHERED FOR A PRAYER SURFACE
UNDER THE ROOF OF THE GREATER
ALAN A.M.E. CATHEDRAL.
>> YES, WE ARE BLACK.
YES, WE ARE CHRISTIANS.
YES, WE ARE AFRICAN METHODIST
EPISCOPALS, AND THERE IS NOTHING
YOU CAN DO ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: FAITH LEADERS
FROM ACROSS NEW YORK CALLED ON
WORSHIPERS TO CELEBRATE THE
LIVES OF THE FALLEN AND RECALL
THAT THE A.M.E. CHURCH WAS
FOUNDED IN THE FACE OF
ADVERSITY.
>> THIS CHURCH, THE AFRICAN
METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH, BORN
OF A STRUGGLE WHICH WE ARE PART
OF, BORN OUT OF THE EMERGENT
NEEDS OF PEOPLE FINDING
THEMSELVES GOING THROUGH
DIFFICULTIES DAY IN AND DAY OUT,
BORN OUT OF A NEED FOR PEOPLE
FOR JUSTICE.
>> Reporter: JOINING THOSE WHO
GATHERED AT THE CHURCH, NEW YORK
SENATOR CHARLES SCHUMER.
>> NOT AGAIN FOR CHARLESTON'S
AFRICAN AMERICAN COMMUNITY WHICH
HAS KNOWN TOO VIOLENT A HISTORY.
NOT AGAIN FOR THIS NATION.
>> Reporter: THE CHURCH'S
PASTOR, FORMER CONGRESSMAN FLOYD
FLAKE, SAID THE SHOOTINGS WERE A
MOMENT FOR THE A.M.E. CHURCH TO
MOVE FORWARD.
>> WE JUST GOT STARTED.
THIS BOY DIDN'T KNOW WHAT HE WAS
DOING.
( APPLAUSE )
WE JUST GOT STARTED.
HE DOESN'T UNDERSTAND US.
>> Sreenivasan: WEDNESDAY'S
MASSACRE DRAWS ATTENTION TO THE
ESTIMATED 260,000 SUSPECTED HATE
CRIMES THAT IN AMERICA EVERY
YEAR ACCORDING TO THE DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE'S BUREAU OF
STATISTICS.
HELPING TO PUT THIS WEEK'S
ATTACK INTO PERSPECTIVE IS
"WASHINGTON POST" REPORTER
CHRISTOPHER INGRAHAM, JOINING ME
FROM BALTIMORE.
ACCORDING TO THE F.B.I., VIOLENT
CRIME NUMBERS HAVE STEADILY BEEN
DECLINING OVER THE LAST TWO
DECADES, BUT WHAT ABOUT HATE
CRIMES?
>> HATE CRIMES ARE BASICALLY
FLAT, AND THAT'S KIND OF AN
INTERESTING-- IT'S AN
INTERESTING SLICE OF DATA.
BASICALLY, THERE ARE NUMBERS
FROM BOTH THE F.B.I. AND THE
BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS.
THE BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS
SHOWS THERE ARE ABOUT 300,000
HATE CRIMES EACH YEAR.
AND THAT'S BEEN PRETTY STEADY
GOING ALL THE WAY BACK TO 2004.
AND ONE OF THE REALLY
INTERESTING THINGS IS THAT THIS
NUMBER HAS HELD STEADY, EVEN AS
THE NUMBER OF ACTIVE HATE GROUPS
IN THE UNITED STATES HAS
DECREASED, ACCORDING TO THE
SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER.
AND ONE THING THAT A LOT OF
PEOPLE THINKS IS HAPPENING IS.
TOINTS TO LONE WOLF ACTORS, LIKE
POTENTIALLY THE SITUATION IN
CHARLESTON.
AND THAT'S A CONCERNING
DEVELOPMENT FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICIALS.
>> Sreenivasan: SO ARE THE
TARGETS STILL THE SAME PEOPLE,
WHETHER THEY'RE FROM HATE GROUPS
OR LONE WOLFS?
>> YES.
SO, YOU KNOW, THE NUMBERS AND
THE RATES SEEM TO BE PRETTY
STEADY.
AMONG RACIAL GROUPS, AFRICAN
AMERICANS EXPERIENCE THE MOST
HATE CRIME.
THEY'RE THE ONES MOST LIKELY TO
BE TARGETED.
THEY'RE BASICALLY-- THEIR
CHANCES OF BEING TARGET FORWARD
A HATE ATTACK ARE ROUGHLY DOUBLE
ANY OTHER GROUP AND IT'S MORE
THAN 10 TIMES THAT FOR WHITE
PEOPLE.
SO AMONG RACIAL GROUPS, BLACKS
ARE DEFINITELY THE MOST
TARGETED.
YOU ALSO SEE A FAIR AMOUNT OF
ATTACKS BASED ON GENDER TOWARDS
GAY MEN AND ALSO A FAIR AMOUNT
OF ATTACKS BASED ON RELIGION
TOWARDS JEWISH PEOPLE PRIMARILY.
>> Sreenivasan: AND WHAT ABOUT
THE VERACITY OF THE NUMBERS?
IS THERE A POSSIBILITY FOR
UNDERCOUNTING?
YOU SAID THERE ARE MULTIPLE
AGENCIES THAT TRACK THIS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
SO THE F.B.I.'S NUMBERS, THEY
PROVIDE THE BEST BREAKDOWNS OF
INDIVIDUAL RACIAL AND RELIGIOUS
GROUPS.
BUT IN TERMS OF THE ACTUAL
NUMBERS THAT THEY TRACK,
EVERYONE AGREES THAT THOSE ARE
PRETTY MUCH A VERY SERIOUS
UNDERCOUNT BECAUSE THE F.B.I.
ONLY TRACKS CRIMES THAT ARE
SPECIFICALLY CATEGORIZED AS A
HATE CRIME BY THEM.
AND SO THAT MEANS THAT THEY HAVE
TO HAVE SPECIFIC CONCRETE
EVIDENCE OF A RACIAL BIAS.
NOW, THE INTERESTING THING IF
YOU LOOK AT THE BUREAU OF
JUSTICE STATISTICS NUMBERS, THEY
SHOW ABOUT FIVE TIMES MORE
RACIALLY BIASED ATTACKS THAN THE
F.B.I. DOES.
AND THE WAY THEY DO THAT IS THEY
JUST GO OUT AND THEY INTERVIEW
VICTIMS OF ALL CRIMES AND THEY
ASK THE VICTIMS, "DO YOU FEEL
YOU WERE TARGETED BASED ON YOUR
RACE OR YOUR RELIGION?"
BASICALLY THE F.B.I. NUMBERS
SHOW ABOUT 6,000 HATE CRIMES PER
YEAR, WHILE THE BUREAU OF
JUSTICE STATISTICS NUMBERS SHOW
CLOSE TO 300,000 HATE CRIMES A
YEAR WHICH IS JUST A HUGE ORDER
OF MAGNITUDE DIFFERENCE, AND
THAT DIFFERENCE IS BECAUSE
THEY'RE INTERVIEWING PEOPLE,
THEY ARE ASKING THEM, "DO YOU
FEEL LIKE YOU WERE TARGETED
BECAUSE OF YOUR RACE OR YOUR
IDENTITY OR WHO YOU ARE?"
>> Sreenivasan: AND THEN WHAT
ABOUT ALL OF THE DIFFERENT
JURISDICTIONS?
ARE THEY ALL REQUIRED TO REPORT
EVERY CRIME POTENTIALLY A HATE
CRIME OR NOT, TO EITHER THE
F.B.I. OR THE OTHER BUREAU?
>> YEAH, SO THAT'S BEEN A BIG
PROBLEM WITH THE F.B.I.'S
NUMBERS AND YOU SEE THIS IN A
LOT OF THINGS.
YOU SEE THIS WITH
POLICE-INVOLVED SHOOTINGS.
YOU SEE THIS IN ALL SORTS OF
AREAS.
THE F.B.I. NUMBERS -- BASICALLY,
LOCAL JURISDICTIONS REPORT THEM
VOLUNTARILY SO THEY'RE NOT
MANDATE TO DO SO BY ANY MEANS,
AND THAT CAN BE A REAL ISSUE.
SO SOME STATES DO A MUCH BETTER
JOB OF THIS THAN OTHER ONES DO.
SO THAT'S WHY IF YOU'RE LOOKING
TO GET A REALLY GOOD COUNT OF
THE OVERALL MAGNITUDE OF THESE
INCIDENTS AROUND THE U.S., IT'S
GOOD TO RELY ON THE BUREAU OF
JUSTICE STATISTICS, AND THEY--
THEIR SAMPLE, IT'S A NATIONAL
PROBABILITY SAMPLE OF CRIMINAL--
OF CRIME VICTIMS, AND SO THEY
PAINT A MORE ACCURATE PICTURE OF
THE OVERALL MAGNITUDE TODAY.
THE TRADEOFF THERE IS THEY DON'T
HAVE QUITE AS DETAILED
BREAKDOWNS OF WHO THE VICTIMS
ARE OR OF WHAT THE MOTIVATIONS
ARE AS THE F.B.I. DOES.
>> Sreenivasan: CHRISTOPHER
INGRAHAM OF THE "WASHINGTON
POST," THANKS SO MUCH FOR
JOINING US.
>> NO PROBLEM.
THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: WATCH AN EXCERPT
FROM THE 2012 PBS DOCUMENTARY"
THE AFRICAN AMERICANS: MANY
RIVERS TO CROSS WITH HENRY LOUIS
GATES JUNIOR" IN WHICH THE LATE
CLEMENTA PINCKNEY, WHO WAS
KILLED THIS WEEK IN THE
CHARLESTON SHOOTINGS, SPOKE
ABOUT WHY BLACK PARTICIPATION IN
ELECTIONS MATTERS.
>> WE BIND TO THIS WHOLE IDEA
OTHER PEOPLE HAVE PERPETUATED
THAT OUR VOTE DOESN'T COUNT.
WE DON'T HAVE THAT CHOICE.
WE DON'T HAVE THAT-- YOU KNOW,
WE DON'T HAVE THAT PRIVILEGE TO
SAY, "OUR VOTE DOESN'T COUNT"
BECAUSE HISTORY TELLS US
DIFFERENTLY.
>> Sreenivasan: VISIT
pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: ALSO IN SOUTH
CAROLINA, FOR THE SECOND TIME, A
JURY FAILED TO AGREE ON A
VERDICT IN A POLICE SHOOTING
INVOLVING AN UNARMED BLACK MAN.
FORMER POLICE CHIEF OF
EUTAWVILLE RICHARD COMBS, WAS
CHARGED WITH MURDERING 54-YEAR
OLD BERNARD BAILEY DURING AN
ARGUMENT OVER HIS DAUGHTER'S
TRAFFIC TICKET.
BAILEY HAD COME TO THE TOWN HALL
TO SPEAK WITH THE POLICE CHIEF.
THE CHIEF TRIED TO SERVE HIM
WITH AN ARREST WARRANT FOR
OBSTRUCTION, AND ENDED UP
SHOOTING BAILEY THREE TIMES.
THE JURY IN COMBS' FIRST TRIAL
WAS ALSO DEADLOCKED.
PROSECUTORS AREN'T SURE IF
THEY'LL TRY COMBS AGAIN.
GOOGLE SAYS IT'S TAKING STEPS TO
FIGHT SO-CALLED REVENGE PORN,
INTIMATE PICTURES POSTED ON THE
WEB WITHOUT THE SUBJECT'S
CONSENT.
THE COMPANY SAYS IT WILL REMOVE
NUDE OR SEXUALLY EXPLICIT IMAGES
FROM POPPING UP AS A RESULT IN A
GOOGLE SEARCH, IF THE PERSON IN
THE PHOTO REQUESTS IT.
HAWAII IS NOW THE FIRST STATE IN
THE COUNTRY TO RAISE THE SMOKING
AGE FROM 18 TO 21.
GOVERNOR DAVID IGE SIGNED THE
BILL YESTERDAY, PROHIBITING
ANYONE UNDER 21 TO SMOKE,
PURCHASE OR EVEN POSSESS
CIGARETTES AND SMOKING DEVICES.
THE LAW GOES INTO EFFECT JANUARY
FIRST.
AN IOWA SUPREME COURT DECISION
WILL ALLOW DOCTORS TO DISPENSE
ABORTION-INDUCING PILLS USING
VIDEOCONFERENCING, ALSO KNOWN AS
TELEMEDICINE.
PLANNED PARENTHOOD USES THE
ONLINE TECHNOLOGY TO HELP
DOCTORS PRESCRIBE MEDICINE TO
PATIENTS WHO LIVE IN DISTANT,
RURAL AREAS.
IN 2013, THE IOWA BOARD OF
MEDICINE STARTED REQUIRING
DOCTORS TO PERFORM EXAMINATIONS
IN PERSON.
BUT YESTERDAY, THE STATE SUPREME
COURT STRUCK DOWN THAT RULE,
SAYING IT PLACES AN UNDUE BURDEN
ON A WOMAN'S CONSTITUTIONAL
RIGHT TO AN ABORTION.
IN THAILAND, AN ELDERLY MAN
DIAGNOSED WITH MIDDLE EAST
RESPIRATORY SYNDROME OR MERS IS
SHOWING SIGNS OF IMPROVEMENT.
THE 175 PEOPLE WHO WERE EXPOSED
TO THE MAN ARE BEING MONITORED,
BUT HAVE NOT SHOWN ANY SYMPTOMS
SO FAR.
IN SOUTH KOREA, 25 PEOPLE HAVE
DIED OF MERS SINCE MAY 20.
BUT TODAY, SOUTH KOREAN
OFFICIALS SAID THEY'VE HAD NO
NEW CASES FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
16 DAYS.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY TONIGHT,
SAVING THE AFRICAN ELEPHANT, BY
DESTROYING ELEPHANT IVORY.
YESTERDAY, MORE THAN ONE TON OF
ILLEGAL ELEPHANT IVORY WAS PUT
ON DISPLAY IN THE CENTER OF
TIMES SQUARE BY THE U.S. FISH
AND WILDLIFE SERVICE.
>> THIS LIFELESS PILE
OF TUSKS AND TRINKETS AND
DECORATIONS IS A STARK REMINDER
OF THE MANY THOUSANDS OF
ELEPHANTS THAT HAVE BEEN
SLAUGHTERED AND CONTINUE TO BE
SLAUGHTERED TO SUPPORT THE
GLOBAL TRADE IN IVORY.
>> Sreenivasan: ELEPHANT
POACHING FOR IVORY IS SOARING
ACCORDING TO CONSERVATION
GROUPS; A POUND OF IVORY CAN
FETCH $1,500 ON THE BLACK
MARKET.
AND AFRICAN ELEPHANTS ARE LISTED
AS THREATENED UNDER THE
ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT.
BUT THE SEIZED IVORY WAS NOT
THERE JUST TO BE LOOKED AT, IT
WAS THERE TO BE CRUSHED.
ONE BY ONE THE PIECES WERE
PLACED ON A CONVEYER BELT WHERE
THEY WERE DROPPED INTO AN
INDUSTRIAL ROCK CRUSHER.
THE DECORATIVE IVORY WAS TURNED
INTO A FINE POWDER.
THE IDEA IS TO SHOW THERE WILL
BE NO TOLERANCE FOR THE ILLEGAL
IVORY TRADE AND DEMONSTRATE TO
POACHERS AND COLLECTORS THAT
LIVING ELEPHANTS ARE MORE
VALUABLE THAN IVORY.
YESTERDAY WAS THE SIXTH IVORY
CRUSH IN THE LAST TWO YEARS.
AND OTHER COUNTRIES HAVE
FOLLOWED THE U.S.'s LEAD,
INCLUDING CHINA, WHICH IS THE
LARGEST MARKET FOR IVORY IN THE
WORLD.
CHINESE OFFICIALS DESTROYED
NEARLY 1,500 POUNDS OF IVORY IN
MAY.
AZZEDINE DOWNES, WHO RUNS THE
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR ANIMAL
WELFARE, SAYS RAISING PUBLIC
AWARENESS THROUGH PUBLICITY
EVENTS LIKE THIS CRUSH WILL HELP
CHANGE BEHAVIOR.
>> THIS IS NOT A PROBLEM OF
CONSERVATION BIOLOGY.
IT'S NOT A PROBLEM OF
CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT.
THIS IS A PROBLEM THAT PEOPLE
CAN SOLVE.
DON'T BUY IVORY.
THAT'S WHAT'S GOING TO STOP THE
ELEPHANTS FROM BEING KILLED.
>> Sreenivasan: AND IN CASE YOU
MISSED IT, BE SURE TO CHECK OUT
NEWSHOUR'S SHORTWAVE PODCAST FOR
MORE ON THE ILLEGAL IVORY TRADE
IN THE U.S.
>> Sreenivasan: BEFORE WE
LEAVE YOU TONIGHT, FEDERAL
AUTHORITIES CONTINUE TO
INVESTIGATE THE WEB SITE THAT
POSTED A WHITE SUPREMACIST
MANIFESTO AND PICTURES OF DYLANN
ROOF, THE MAN CHARGED WITH
KILLING NINE PEOPLE AT MOTHER
EMANUEL CHURCH ON WEDNESDAY.
AT THE SAME TIME, LEADERS AT THE
CHURCH SAY THEY WILL REOPEN FOR
SERVICES TOMORROW.
THAT'S ALL FOR TONIGHT.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.